Together, they seized twenty thousand square miles in northern Syria, a dusty region of crops, pastures, and oil fields that reminded me of Oklahoma. When I drove around Raqqa, the former ISIS capital, little girls with ponytails and pastel backpacks were headed to school—after years of being banned from education or even from leaving home. Women, their faces uncovered, strolled to the street markets rising amid the rubble, much of it created by U.S. air strikes. Small groups of men sat curbside, sipping their morning tea and smoking, another practice that was banned under ISIS. At several shops, workers were pounding twisted construction rods—giant metal tumbleweeds pulled from bombed-out buildings—to flatten them, for use in reconstruction. Spring lambs, small and pristine white, nibbled along the roadsides.

In Washington and other Western capitals, the territorial defeat of ISIS, which for years was considered the greatest threat to global security, will almost certainly be studied as a model for future counterterrorism operations. “The S.D.F. is the best unconventional partner force we’ve ever had, anywhere,” Brett McGurk, the former lead coördinator of the campaign against ISIS, who is now a fellow at Stanford, told me. “The S.D.F. in effect conquered one-third of Syria, once the heart of the ISIS caliphate, with very low costs for the United States.” Mazloum, who is on Turkey’s most-wanted list, evolved into one of the most important U.S. allies in the Middle East.

The collaboration—which deepened over three phases—is an epic with twists, tragedies, and, ultimately, betrayal at an enormous cost to America’s allies in Syria. Eleven thousand Kurdish fighters have died since 2014. The Americans have lost eight.

The alliance was seeded in August, 2014, a month after ISIS declared its caliphate and a week after a lightning ISIS offensive began in Iraq. Marauding ISIS fighters murdered thousands of Yazidi men and abducted truckloads of women. Tens of thousands of fleeing Yazidis, a mostly Kurdish-speaking minority summarily declared apostates by ISIS, were stranded on the arid peaks of Mount Sinjar without food, water, or a way out. Fearing genocide, President Obama authorized the first major U.S. intervention against the Islamic State—air strikes on ISIS positions in Iraq, and air drops of humanitarian goods to the Yazidis. However much Obama wanted to avoid another Middle East war, the United States had just taken on ISIS. The question was what to do next.

