Netanyahu, Gantz, and Five Scenarios for the Israeli Election Bernard
Avishai If the final polls on the Israeli election are to be
believed—by law, there will be no more revealed before the voting
begins, on Tuesday morning—things are looking better for Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s Likud Party than for Blue and White, the
new centrist party led by the former military Chief of Staff Benny
Gantz. Consider the head-spinning possibilities: Gantz wins
outright—and his problems begin. For Blue and White to win a
plurality, a significant number of secular, formerly right-of-center
voters will have to support it. So Gantz would be trapped. Gantz seems
to be counting on eating his Zionist cake while depending on those who
would not have it. Netanyahu is facing indictments. Netanyahu’s way
around this is to form a coalition that will urgently pass two laws.
In effect, Netanyahu would be putting himself above the law. Netanyahu
wins narrowly—and faces a Likud revolt. If Netanyahu’s bloc does win
only a bare majority, his ability to form a government won’t be much
better than Gantz’s. This is a radical possibility that may appear
less so as the post-election dust settles. Indeed, in ordinary years,
such a government would seem irresistible. The President, Reuven
Rivlin, concerned about the integrity of civil society and its
judicial institutions, is reported to be entertaining this idea. A
unity government is installed. Netanyahu’s proceedings are in the way,
however. The only way that he could be moved aside is if Rivlin, who
has long been alienated from him, consults with all parties, concedes
a virtual tie, and turns to a third member of the Knesset—say, a
veteran Likud rival such as Sa’ar—and asks that member to assemble a
coalition. There is much to learn from this campaign, none of it
reassuring. Like Trump’s supporters, Netanyahu’s often seem to so
deeply identify with his everyman posturing, his regional bullying,
and his nationalist resentments that democratic institutions can be
made to appear as just another élitist preoccupation.